# Mask-Detector
Due to the coronavirus people have been advised to wear masks when going out, but a lot of people dont follow this. So i made this to check if people are wearing masks. The model for detecing the masks is made in tensorflow as a Convolutional model, but the model requires corped images of only the face. To get faces from an image or a frame in a video I used amazon's Rekognition which is very good at detecting faces, using the bounding boxes returned by rekognition i could crop the image for all the deteced faces in an image and the pass them to my model. The problem with this method is that it take a while to recieve the response from rekognition which causes realtime detection to sturrer and lag a lot as frames are being processed every ~2 second. The other way I treid to do this was using Opencv's built in classifier, using haar cascade to detect faces. The problem with this is that it can only detect faces when they are fully visible and if a person is wearing a mask it doesn't detect their face which kind of defeats the whole purpose. But there is also a model made in haar cascade to detect the eyes and more specifically the right eye, using this i could detect all the faces and the right eye(it doesnt matter that its the right eye all that matters is that its only one eye) and compare the location of the eye relative to each face that was detected, if a face was detected it is directly considered to not be wearing a mask, and all eyes are checked to see if they match with the faces, if some eyes are found to not belong to any faces, it is assumed that it might be a person whose face is covered, these faces are then cropped as before and passed to my mask detection model to verify if they have a mask on or not. Even this method doesn't produce as smooth of a video as i would like.
I got the dataset for training from https://github.com/prajnasb/face_detector/tree/master/dataset
